did you know that building backlinks
doesn't guarantee that your rankings are
going to go up hey everyone i'm neil
patel and today i'm going to break down
why you should not build backlinks this
year and instead you should do this
look before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
here's the thing there's nothing wrong
with building backlinks and i don't
think everyone should stop building
backlinks but if you're strapped for
cash and time there's something else
that you can do that can help you in the
short run especially if your budget is
trapped and even if you are building
links you should never pay for them when
it comes to a pay-per-play you can pay
people to help you without reaching get
them naturally but you shouldn't pay for
them depending on the niche and the
location of your business you know for
smaller newer websites it takes a lot of
time to for link building to really make
an impact and work
you can really do well in the early days
without building tons of links or
building you know just a few of them and
getting them gradual over time
especially if you're going after niches
that aren't that competitive instead of
doing link building i want you to commit
to writing one high quality piece of
content per week for at least you know a
few months if you do that for a few
months what you'll find is you can
slowly start getting rankings quicker
and here's how you do that when you
write content you're doing it based off
of specific keywords
and take those keywords and put them in
ubersuggest
and then uber says on the left-hand
navigation click on keyword ideas
and in there you'll have a button that
says page one ranking potential if you
click on that button put in your url
it'll break down all the keywords that
you can rank for
now what i want you to do is write
content on all these keywords that are
relevant to your business you take those
keywords and you create a blog article
on them
now some of those keywords don't fit
well together
but for the ones that don't fit well
together you write separate articles
around them and ideally they should be
around the same topic this is what's
considered topic clusters what i mean by
that is let's say i'm writing a guide to
seo i can go after hey here's the
beginner's guide to seo then i can talk
about on-page seo which is related but
that could be a whole separate article
then i can talk about
link building which is a whole separate
article then i can talk about let's say
page speed and how that impacts seo and
that could be a separate article when it
comes to optimizing your load time then
i can talk about google's amp framework
which is for accelerated mobile pages
for mobile devices and for your content
pages they can load faster for mobile
users when doing a search on google
the point that i'm trying to make is if
you focus your time instead of doing
link building especially in the early
days and you write content you're going
to be better off see because when you go
out there and you try to build links and
you don't have much especially if you
have a new site or your site doesn't
have much that's of value and i'm not
trying to knock it it's what other
perceivers value not what you or i
perceive right and if they don't
perceive value they're not going to want
to naturally link to it and if you email
all those people trying to convince them
to link to you it's a lot of work and
the results are going to be slim to none
but on the flip side if you spent your
time writing content that you could
potentially rank for you're going to be
better off and using this flow and uber
says when you're doing keyword research
what you'll find is some keywords like
credit cards are super competitive
that's really hard to rank for even
terms like auto insurance but on the
flip side that you know what you can
potentially rank on page one for that
button
what analyze your site your on-page seo
your backlinks your history and it takes
all that into account and it tells you
what you can rank for today what you
have the best possibilities to rank for
in the short term
with the circumstances that you're you
know being dealt with when it comes to
seo
and by focusing writing high quality
content you're going to be better off
but here's another trick that you need
to keep in mind when you're writing
these pieces of content that you could
rank for
take those keywords do a search form on
google
i want you to look at all the people in
the top 10. what are they doing so
amazing
what are they missing what could they be
doing better
what are they including that you have to
include
that'll give you an idea of how to write
better content
you also need to go to page four or five
six of google and look at the pages that
are ranking what are they not doing that
the ones that are on page one are doing
that'll help
make it in concrete on what you should
be doing
and that'll give you better ideas of hey
here's what i need a right to beat the
other people who are ranking because
it's not just about backlinks just think
about this when you do a google search
are you like hmm this number one result
should be there not because their
content but because they have a million
links you don't really care who has a
million links or two million links or a
hundred links when you're doing a google
search all you care for an end user is
hey i did a search did i click did it
give me the solution to my search query
or my problem as quick as possible in
the most efficient way if it did you're
happy if not you click the back when you
go to the next result you don't really
look at on-page code or keyword density
or backlinks you look at did it solve
your problem that's user experience
you want to optimize for that when
you're writing your content put the user
first and if you do that
and then you start building links later
on right but you create the content
first
you're gonna start ranking better and
getting more traffic that's why i want
you to do this instead of build links
because it'll help create a really solid
foundation so when you do get more links
you can start writing content on more
competitive terms and you'll do even
better
if you need help with your marketing
check out my ad agency np digital if you
enjoy this video like it share tell
appeal about it thank you for watching